initial draft of ambassador documentation (#39)
elastisys/compliantkubernetes: docs/operator-manual/ambassador.md

# Ambassador

> Ambassador is an alternative of using nginx as an ingress controller. Ambassador can

Reviewer: As per "Contributor Guide": "Capitalize proper nouns, in particular names of projects, companies and products: Kubernetes, Amazon, Azure."

```suggestion
Ambassador is an alternative of using Nginx as an Ingress controller. Ambassador can
```

be used as an regular ingress controller but also supports more features. It comes with
Its own custom resources which can be used to control traffic to the cluster with

> greater precision. For more documentation on ambassador see https://www.getambassador.io/docs/latest/.

Reviewer: Please make this a proper link and test the output with `mkdocs serve`.

## Ambassador in compliantkubernetes

Ambassador can be enabled in compliantkubernetes by setting the config options
```yaml
ambassador:
  enabled: true
nginxIngress:
  enabled: false
```
in the `wc-config.yaml` config file (in the [compliantkubernetes-apps](https://github.com/elastisys/compliantkubernetes-apps)
repository).  It is as of now only available in the workload cluster, but can be extended to the service cluster as well.

> Unfortunately ambassador receives traffic on port 8080 and 8443 by default. While the kubernetes clusters receives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, Ambassador receives traffic on port 8080 and 8443 by default. While the Kubernetes clusters receives
```

traffic on port 80 and 443. To fix this a manual manifest must be applied after the installation is completed.

```yaml
apiVersion: getambassador.io/v2
kind:  Module
metadata:
  name:  ambassador
  namespace: ambassador
spec:
  config:
    service_port: 443
```

> This config can not be set in the helm chart and thus needs to be added manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This config cannot be set in the Helm chart and thus needs to be added manually.
```

> ## Using ambassador

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using Ambassador
```

When ambassador is deployed traffic can be routed either by using an ingress
```yaml
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: test-ingress
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: ambassador
spec:
  rules:
  - host: test.example.com
    http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          serviceName: test-service
          servicePort: 80
        path: /
```
Or by using the mapping resource.
```yaml
kind: Mapping
apiVersion: getambassador.io/v2
metadata:
  name: test-mapping
spec:
  prefix: /
  service: test-service.namespace
  host: test.example.com
```

## Behind the scenes

> When applying compliantkubernetes-apps with ambassador enabled it will install it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When applying compliantkubernetes-apps with Ambassador enabled it will install it
```

with datawires [helm chart](https://github.com/datawire/ambassador-chart/tree/master).

> This will install ambassador pods as a daemonset running on each worker node in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will install Ambassador pods as a DaemonSet running on each worker node in the cluster.
```

> The daemonset will use the hosts port to direct any incoming traffic on the selected ports (443).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Daemonset will use the hosts port to direct any incoming traffic on the selected ports (443).
```

> The ambassador will act both as an ingress controller and routing traffic through the custom resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ambassador will act both as an Ingress controller and routing traffic through the custom resources.
```

> All http requests will automatically be re-routed to https requests. If there is no certificates set up

Reviewer: "Capitalize all letters of acronyms: DNS, TCP, AWS."

```suggestion
All HTTP requests will automatically be re-routed to HTTPS requests. If there is no certificates set up
```

> it will automatically fall back to a self signed certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it will automatically fall back to a self-signed certificate.
```

> ### The ambassador console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The Ambassador console
```

> If no valid path is added in the request it will fall back to a general ambassador starting page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no valid path is added in the request it will fall back to a general Ambassador starting page.
```

> From this page you will be routed to the admin console (/edge_stack/admin) and asked to login

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From this page you will be routed to the admin console (`/edge_stack/admin`) and asked to login
```

> with `edgectl` (if you have access to the kubernetes cluster). This console can be used to view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with `edgectl` (if you have access to the Kubernetes cluster). This console can be used to view
```

any rules, mappings or config set up with the ambassador resources. OBS, this page will not show
any mappings done through the ingress resource.

> ### Load balancer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Load Balancer
```

If there is an external Load Balancer pointing on the worker nodes they will have to be configured with

> the correct health check. Ambassador does not give a 200 response on the default path `/`. The path ambassador

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the correct health check. Ambassador does not give a 200 response on the default path `/`. The path Ambassador
```
